Export JS API (#7979)
withastro/astro: .changeset/many-pears-explode.md

---
'astro': major
---

> Export experimental `dev`, `build`, `preview`, and `sync` APIs from `astro`. These APIs allow you to run Astro's commands programmatically, and replaces the previous entrypoint that runs the Astro CLI.

Reviewer: Just pointing out that I see the word "experimental" here and that typically means "behind an experimental flag" for us. If that's the case, then we should show the flag to enable and should include them in config-reference as an experimental entry.

If it's closer to something like "new" or "use at your own risk" or "good luck!", we might want to consider a different word or phrase that is closer to that meaning.

When it comes time for docs, we do have a CLI page in reference, and we could consider including this on that page. The page starts out pretty user-friendly, but then could progress into something like this.

Author: The APIs are directly imported so I don't think we can have a flag for it. It's closer to "use at your own risk" though, and I'm not exactly sure what's the alternative to "experimental", maybe "work-in-progress" or "unstable"? 🤔 

> When it comes time for docs, we do have a CLI page in reference, and we could consider including this on that page. The page starts out pretty user-friendly, but then could progress into something like this.

That sounds great. Since these APIs are _experimental_, and it's signature will likely change, do you think it's worth introducing a full section for these APIs as a start? Or I was thinking we can lightly touch on the JS API names for each CLI commands:

> `astro dev`
> ...
> You can also run the command programatically with the experimental `dev()` API exported from the `"astro"` package.

Reviewer 2: Our usual approach with experimental things is to give them an isolated page or section — makes it easier to avoid lots of repetition saying each time something is mentioned is experimental, makes it easier to update the docs as experimental features change, plus avoids drawing too much attention to a feature we’re still stabilising.

Author: I've made a first draft of the API under the CLI commands page as a section at https://github.com/withastro/docs/pull/4234

Reviewer: I think that's a good place to start this, and keep it self-contained on that page as an Advanced section! Let's run with that idea for now.

> 
> Export experimental `dev`, `build`, `preview`, and `sync` APIs from `astro`. These APIs allow you to run Astro's commands programmatically, and replaces the previous entrypoint that runs the Astro CLI.

Reviewer: ```suggestion

Export experimental `dev`, `build`, `preview`, and `sync` APIs from `astro`. These APIs allow you to run Astro's commands programmatically, and replaces the previous entry point that runs the Astro CLI.
```
From looking it up, I *think* entry point is two words. Unless you mean a very specific term/property, I'd choose two words here.
